In this lecture, you'll learn about the different types of Wi-Fi networks that are available, Wi-Fi
services are defined in the, believe it, or two 11 standard and I triple E, I'm sort of institute
of electrical and electronics engineers in the Shishani.
The terminology that is used comes straight from the eight to 11 standard to vouchered terminology that
I'll be using throughout the section.
So the different types of wireless networks that we have, first up is IWP, that's a wireless personal
area network and a weapon.
The devices are very close together within 10 meters of each other.
And Bluetooth is often used for the connectivity here.
W line is a wireless local area network that provides access to a campus network.
But campus will typically be wired to network.
And having Wi-Fi also allows you to connect to it wirelessly as well.
It is possible that the entire network, the entire building, your corporate office, everybody is
connecting their wirelessly.
But more likely there is going to be a wired network there with a W on it allows you to connect to that
wired infrastructure without the need for a wire, a cable yourself.
And the devices are within 100 meters of a wireless access point with Adobe Ulen.
We'll be talking a lot more about wireless access points for the rest of the section.
Finally, we have a W, which is a wireless metropolitan area network that covers a large area such
as a city.
And for the Shishani exam, it really focuses on on wireless local area network for wireless access
to a corporate campus.
OK, looking at ad hoc networks now, so with ad hoc networks, two or more wireless stations communicate
directly with each other.
Your first bit of terminology there, whenever you've got a device communicating on the wireless network,
it's known as a station.
So with an ad hoc network, but is a peer-to-peer network where your wireless stations are communicating
directly with each other on Peer-to-peer network is known as an IBSA as an independent basic service
set.
So you can see in the example here, I've got free laptops for all communicating directly with each
other.
The circle in the left is the laptop on the lamp's coverage area.
You can see the coverage area for this laptop here and then the coverage area for this laptop here,
because we're all in each other's coverage area but only able to communicate directly with each other.
But it's probably pretty obvious.
You can see there's going to be a scalability issue with this, because what if we add another laptop
to the picture and now this laptop is in the coverage area of the two of our laptops needs to it, but
it's outside the coverage area of the laptop on the left.
So there's not a scalability issue with ad hoc network.
It only really works for a upon a wireless personal area network where the devices are all very close
to each other.
So this is where infrastructure mode comes in, which can solve scalability issue and infrastructure
mode, roggeveen the devices communicating directly with each other over wireless, they communicate
via a wireless access point.
So you can see the two laptops here.
When they're communicating with each other or anything else, they're going to be sending frames to
the wireless app.
And it's a wireless app that forwards voice frames on.
Now, if you look here, you know, the wireless app has also got its own coverage area.
So how does this solve the scalability issue that we had in ad hoc networks?
Well, first reason is the wireless app can be connected to the wired network.
So this now gives your wireless devices access to the entire wired network and beyond it.
And also you can deploy multiple wireless access points so that you get coverage across the entire area
that you want.
Now, wireless stations work in either ad hoc or infrastructure mode.
They can't operate in booths at the same time.
So what if you're in the corporate office, you're connected to the wireless lan, but you also want
to connect to a wireless monitor as well?
Well, does that mean you can't do it?
Well, there is a solution for this, and that is Wi-Fi direct Wi-Fi direct.
Allow these devices to be connected to an access point, to build an infrastructure mode and also be
part of a peer to peer wireless network.
But I thought I just said that you can't have infrastructure more than ad hoc mode working at the same
time.
Well, that still holds because with Wi-Fi direct, it does not operate an ad hoc abscessed mode.
It's an extension to infrastructure.
So it's still infrastructure mode.
WPX Wi-Fi protected set up enables connections set up by pushing a button.
So it's very easy to set up.
And it's a wireless personal area network because for a peer-to-peer connection, the devices have to
be close together.
The predefine services are available with Wi-Fi, direct our Mimecast to a wireless external monitor
DL and a digital living networking alliance allows devices to stream music and video to each other.
And it can also direct print.
Another couple of things to tell you about wireless.
Bridges's is the first one where bridges can be used to connect areas which are not reachable via cable
to the network.
So any example here you can see over and over.
Maybe this is our warehouse and it's not possible to get a wired connection going in there from the
main building.
But what we could use to get connectivity to the warehouse is we could put a wireless bridge in there
and have a wireless connection going over to the main building.
So wireless bridge is often used to give connectivity between buildings where a cable is not possible.
And the last one is mesh networks.
Mesh networks are becoming very popular and home networks.
Now, this is another option to spread the coverage area of a wireless LAN.
One AP radio is used to serve clients and the other radio in the app connects to the back home network.
So you can see here we've got our main switch here.
It's connected to an app and we've got a black hole and a five gigahertz radio to another app and then
another back home to another app.
And this could go on as well.
So you can see that this can extend the coverage area, giving you a large wireless coverage area and
still connected to your wired network.
OK, that was everything I needed to tell you here.
See you in the next lecture for more wireless.